docs: Added console authentication docs (#846)
apify/apify-docs: sources/platform/console/authentication.md

---
title: Authentication
description: Learn about Apify Console's account creation and authentication process.
sidebar_position: 5
category: platform
slug: /console/authentication
---

**Learn about Apify Console's account creation and authentication process.**

---

> ## Sign up

Reviewer: Do we need the section on how to sign up? It is already covered in the main doc about Apify Console? Since this is much more expanded look at hot to sign up maybe it could be moved there instead of being here with doc that should be focused only on two factor authentication?

Reviewer: It doesn't make much sense to me to remove it from index.md as it should serve as introduction to Apify and by extension Apify Console. I would much rather move the signing up from authentication.md to index.md and leave authentication.md as solely authentication focused document.

After you click on the link (or copy it to your browser), you will proceed to a page where you can set up a new password.

![Apify console reset password page](./images/console-reset-password-page.png)

## Two-factor authentication

If you use email and password to sign in to Apify Console, you can enable two-factor authentication for your account. This will add an extra layer of security to your account and will prevent anyone who gains access to your password from signing in to your account.

### Setting up two-factor authentication

To set up two-factor authentication, go to your [account settings](https://console.apify.com/account/settings) and scroll down to the **Two-factor authentication** section. Currently there is only one option, which is the **Authenticator app**. If you have two-factor authentication already enabled, will be a label **enabled** next it.

![Apify console two-factor authentication section](./images/console-two-factor-auth-section.png)

If it's not enabled click on the **Enable** button and you will see with this view:

![Apify console setup two-factor authentication - app](./images/console-setup-two-factor-auth-app.png)

> In this view you can use your favorite authenticator app to scan the QR code. We recommend using Google Authenticator ([Google play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2&hl=en_US)/[Apple app store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/google-authenticator/id388497605)) or [Authy](https://authy.com/) or but any other authenticator app should work as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this view you can use your favorite authenticator app to scan the QR code. We recommend using Google Authenticator ([Google play store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2&hl=en_US)/[Apple app store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/google-authenticator/id388497605)) or [Authy](https://authy.com/) but any other authenticator app should work as well.
```

You can also setup your app/browser extension manually without the QR code. To do that, click on the **Setup key** link below the QR code this view with key will pop up:

![Apify console setup two-factor authentication - key](./images/console-setup-two-factor-auth-key.png)

Here you can copy the two-factor `secret` key, which you can use in your authenticator app to setup the account. You can also use this key to setup your authenticator app on multiple devices.

After you scan the QR code, or setup your app manually, the app will generate a code which you need to enter into the **Verify the code from the app** field. After you enter the code, click on the **Continue** button to get to the next step of the setup process.

![Apify console setup two-factor authentication - recovery codes](./images/console-setup-two-factor-auth-codes.png)

> In this step you will we will show you 16 recovery codes. These codes can are required when you want to sign in to your account if you lose access to your authenticator app. We recommend saving these codes in a safe place, ideally printing them out and not storing them on your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step you will see 16 recovery codes. These codes can are required when you want to sign in to your account if you lose access to your authenticator app. We recommend saving these codes in a safe place, ideally printing them out and not storing them on your device.
```

You will not be able to enable the two-factor authentication until you on the **Download** / **Copy** buttons, or copy the codes manually. After you do that, the **I have saved my recovery codes** button will be enabled and you can click on it to enable the two-factor authentication. Which will be confirmed in the next view.

### Verification after sign in

> After you enable two-factor authentication, the next time you attempt to sign in, you will not be directly redirected to Apify Console, but instead you will have to provide your verification code. To do that, open your authenticator app and enter the code for your Apify account into the **code** field. After you enter the code, click on the **Verify** button and if the provided code is correct, you will proceed to Apify Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you enable two-factor authentication, the next time you attempt to sign in, you'll need to enter a code before you can get into the Apify Console. To do that, open your authenticator app and enter the code for your Apify account into the **code** field. After you enter the code, click on the **Verify** button and if the provided code is correct, you will proceed to Apify Console.
```

![Apify console two-factor authentication form](./images/console-two-factor-authentication.png)

### Using recovery codes

> In case you loose access to your authenticator app, you can use the recovery codes to sign in to your account. To do that, click on the **recovery code or begin 2FA account recovery** link below the **Verify** button. This will redirect you to a similar view as the current one, but instead of code from the authenticator app, you will need to enter one of your 16 recovery codes which you have received during the setup process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you lose access to your authenticator app, you can use the recovery codes to sign in to your account. To do that, click on the **recovery code or begin 2FA account recovery** link below the **Verify** button. This will redirect you to a similar view as the current one, but instead of code from the authenticator app, you will need to enter one of your 16 recovery codes which you have received during the setup process.
```

If the provided recovery code is correct, you will proceed to Apify Console same as if you provided the code from the authenticator app. We recommend then going to the [account settings](https://console.apify.com/account/settings) and disabling the two-factor authentication, and then enabling it again with the new authenticator app.

:::info Removal of recovery codes

> When you successfully use a recovery code, we remove the code from the original list and it's no longer possible to use it again. If you use all of your recovery codes, you will not be able to sign in to your account with them anymore and you will need to either use your authenticator app or contact our support to help you regain access to your account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you successfully use a recovery code, we remove the code from the original list as it's no longer possible to use it again. If you use all of your recovery codes, you will not be able to sign in to your account with them anymore and you will need to either use your authenticator app or contact our support to help you regain access to your account.
```

After you disable the two-factor authentication you will be able to sign in to your account without providing the verification code.

![Apify console disable two-factor authentication modal](./images/console-two-factor-auth-disable.png)

### What to do when you get locked out

If you lost access to both your authenticator app and either you do not have any recovery codes left or you lost them as well, you will not be able to sign in to your account. In this case you will need to contact our support. To do that you can either send us an email to [support@apify.com](mailto:support@apify.com?subject='Locked%20out%20of%20account%20with%202FA%20enabled') or you can go to the [sign in page](https://console.apify.com/sign-in) and sign in with your email and password. Then on the two-factor authentication page click on the **recovery code or begin 2FA account recovery** link and on the two-factor recovery page click on the **Contact our support** link. This link will open up our online chat and our support team can help you from there.

> In order for our support team to help you and recover your account, you will need to provide them with the following information:

Reviewer: maybe this in the future can be added as :::note or :::caution?
